Review on Motion Control of Autonomous Vehicles [Aa"A AAAA(C)A(C)A 3/4A(C)A(C)AAA 1/2AAA 3/4a AAazAAAAA AAA 1/2AAEAAAa~AAa cent AA 1/2AAA AAA>>A 1/4AAA]
Xiong L., Yang X., Zhuo G., Leng B., Zhang R.
2020
The motion control problem of autonomous vehicles is reviewed. From the perspective of model, algorithm, and control structure, the domestic and foreign research progress is reviewed at three levels of longitudinal motion control, path following and trajectory tracking control, and the development prospect of motion control technology for autonomous vehicles is proposed. The current motion control research mainly focuses on normal conditions. In order to realize the potential of autonomous vehicles in handling critical scenarios that human drivers find challenging or lack the ability to navigate, it is necessary to extend the research to extreme working conditions. However, the properties of non-linearity and multi-dimensional coupled dynamics are significantly enhanced in extreme working conditions. The requirements of system modeling and adaptability and robustness of motion control algorithm are further increased. At the same time, in order to deal with the multi-objective coordination in complex scenarios, the integration of motion planning and control considering environmental uncertainty needs to be studied in depth. Adding actuators can increase the lateral response speed and control margin, but the research of control allocation of redundant and heterogeneous actuators is still to be broken through. The realization of motion control depends on road adhesion coefficient, sideslip angle, etc. Therefore, it is urgent to solve the problem of key state and parameter estimation under multi-source sensor information fusion. In addition, the application of machine learning to the field of vehicle motion control is also an important development direction. A,A(C) 2020 Journal of Mechanical Engineering.
Autonomous vehicles; Longitudinal control; Motion control; Path following; Trajectory tracking
