PERSON: Personalized information retrieval evaluation based on citation networks
Shayan A. Tabrizi and Azadeh Shakery and Hamed Zamani and Mohammad Ali Tavallaei
2018
Despite the importance of personalization in information retrieval, there is a big lack of standard datasets and methodologies for evaluating personalized information retrieval (PIR) systems, due to the costly process of producing such datasets. Subsequently, a group of evaluation frameworks (EFs) have been proposed that use surrogates of the PIR evaluation problem, instead of addressing it directly, to make PIR evaluation more feasible. We call this group of EFs, indirect evaluation frameworks. Indirect frameworks are designed to be more flexible than the classic (direct) ones and much cheaper to be employed. However, since there are many different settings and methods for PIR, e.g., social-network-based vs. profile-based PIR, and each needs some special kind of data to do the personalization based on, not all the evaluation frameworks are applicable to all the PIR methods. In this paper, we first review and categorize the frameworks that have already been introduced for evaluating PIR. We further propose a novel indirect EF based on citation networks (called PERSON), which allows repeatable, large-scale, and low-cost PIR experiments. It is also more information-rich compared to the existing EFs and can be employed in many different scenarios. The fundamental idea behind PERSON is that in each document (paper) d, the cited documents are generally related to d from the perspective of d’s author(s). To investigate the effectiveness of the proposed EF, we use a large collection of scientific papers. We conduct several sets of experiments and demonstrate that PERSON is a reliable and valid EF. In the experiments, we show that PERSON is consistent with the traditional Cranfield-based evaluation in comparing non-personalized IR methods. In addition, we show that PERSON can correctly capture the improvements made by personalization. We also demonstrate that its results are highly correlated with those of another salient EF. Our experiments on some issues about the validity of PERSON also show its validity. It is also shown that PERSON is robust w.r.t. its parameter settings.
Personalized search, Evaluation, Citation networks, Personalization
