Path Planning of Urban Autonomous Driving Using Laser Point Cloud Data [AEA(C)AaAAAa,AaaAasAAAa~AAazAAA 1/2AAasAa"A AAAA(C)A(C)A 3/4A(C)A(C)AAAAAA 3/4azAAazAEa cent AA(R)a"AAa cent ]
Guo X.-M., Li B.-J., Long J.-Y., Xu H.-D., Lu Z.
2020
To solve the problems of weak robustness and low reliability of random sampling algorithm under the influence of perceived environmental uncertainty, a gradual optimal sampling algorithm framework based on laser obstacle potential space field was adopted in designing the planning algorithm for autonomous driving requirements. First, a planning space that integrates the repulsive field based on the potential field and laser point cloud was constructed to solve the over-segmentation problem in laser obstacle extraction. Second, the planning space was used to process the sampling, optimal parent node selection, pruning, and final trajectory selection strategies in the random sampling algorithm. Third, the "anytime" strategy was added to the algorithm to improve the utilization of the optimized solution, and the algorithm's calculation process met the requirements of the real-time autonomous driving system. Fourth, to improve the robustness and reliability of autonomous driving, a cost function that combines the effects of the above planning space and five factors for selecting the optimal path was created, which was based on different autonomous driving scenes to adjust the corresponding parameters. Fifth, a real autonomous driving car was used to conduct field tests on an unmanned city road, including keeping and changing lanes, overtaking, and static obstacle avoidance. The test results show that the algorithm framework designed in this study can adapt to the urban environment driving conditions with a top speed of 40 kmA cent a,A cent h-1, and can complete the car-following, lane changing, integration, intersection driving, and obstacle avoidance decisions of static and dynamic obstacles. In comparison with the SST algorithm, the smoothness of the trajectory, steering wheel angle, and speed of the algorithm in all the experiments are superior to those of the SST algorithm. Additionally, the distance between the trajectory and obstacle is also better than that of the SST algorithm. A,A(C) 2020, Editorial Department of China Journal of Highway and Transport. All right reserved.
Automotive engineering; Potential space field; SST algorithm; Trajectory planning; Urban autonomous driving
