Enable faster and smoother spatio-temporal trajectory planning for autonomous vehicles in constrained dynamic environment
Xin L., Kong Y., Li S.E., Chen J., Guan Y., Tomizuka M., Cheng B.
2020
Trajectory planning is of vital importance to decision-making for autonomous vehicles. Currently, there are three popular classes of cost-based trajectory planning methods: sampling-based, graph-search-based, and optimization-based. However, each of them has its own shortcomings, for example, high computational expense for sampling-based methods, low resolution for graph-search-based methods, and lack of global awareness for optimization-based methods. It leads to one of the challenges for trajectory planning for autonomous vehicles, which is improving planning efficiency while guaranteeing model feasibility. Therefore, this paper proposes a hybrid planning framework composed of two modules, which preserves the strength of both graph-search-based methods and optimization-based methods, thus enabling faster and smoother spatio-temporal trajectory planning in constrained dynamic environment. The proposed method first constructs spatio-temporal driving space based on directed acyclic graph and efficiently searches a spatio-temporal trajectory using the improved A* algorithm. Then taking the search result as reference, locally convex feasible driving area is designed and model predictive control is applied to further optimize the trajectory with a comprehensive consideration of vehicle kinematics and moving obstacles. Results simulated in four different scenarios all demonstrated feasible trajectories without emergency stop or abrupt steering change, which is kinematic-smooth to follow. Moreover, the average planning time was 31 ms, which only took 59.05%, 18.87%, and 0.69%, respectively, of that consumed by other state-of-the-art trajectory planning methods, namely, maximum interaction defensive policy, sampling-based method with iterative optimizations, and Graph-search-based method with Dynamic Programming. A,A(C) IMechE 2020.
autonomous driving; convex feasible set; directed acyclic graph; dynamic environment; Spatio-temporal trajectory planning
