Dynamic response characteristics of fast charging station-evs on interaction of multiple vehicles
Liu X.
2020
In view of the existing problems that multiple vehicles interaction in the selection of fast charging stations for electric vehicles (EVs) and the equalizing the service capability by multiple stations game in station-EVs interaction, a dynamic response strategy of fast charging station-EVs considering interaction of multiple vehicles is proposed. According to this, the charging scheme of EVs and the dynamic service fee of charging stations are decided. Firstly, the charging guidance framework of station-EVs interaction is proposed to describe the information flow relationship for vehicle, station, road and intelligent transportation system (ITS). Secondly, in order to meet the diversified needs of car owners in charging selection, a charging navigation model is established. Considering the impact of dynamic path travel time, a dynamic path selection model of urban road network is established based on the road segment transmission model. Thirdly, in order to accurately analyze the interaction process between vehicles, a charging decision-making method is proposed considering the dynamic evolution of EVs, which reflects the station selection probability of different positions during driving. Fourthly, according to the queuing time of the charging station, the service fee of the charging station is dynamically adjusted to optimize the service capacity of the charging station, and the multi-agent stackelberg game model is established by combining the charging station selection of EVs with the dynamic service fee of charging station. Finally, Sioux Falls urban road network system is used as an example to analyze the path selection, dynamic decision of charging station selection and service fee, and station-EVs interaction strategy. The results show that this method improves the efficiency of electric vehicle charging station searching, guides EVs in the road network to charge orderly, balances the charging load between charging stations and optimizes the service capacity of charging station reasonably. A,A(C) 2013 IEEE.
Dynamic response; Fast charging station; Interaction of multiple vehicles; Navigation; Spatial transfer ability
