Efficiency and productivity for decision making on low-power heterogeneous CPU+GPU SoCs
Constantinescu D.-A., Navarro A., Corbera F., FernA¡ndez-Madrigal J.-A., Asenjo R.
2020
Markov decision processes provide a formal framework for a computer to make decisions autonomously and intelligently when the effects of its actions are not deterministic. This formalism has had tremendous success in many disciplines; however, its implementation on platforms with scarce computing capabilities and power, as it happens in robotics or autonomous driving, is still limited. To solve this computationally complex problem efficiently under these constraints, high-performance accelerator hardware and parallelized software come to the rescue. In particular, in this work, we evaluate off-line-tuned static and dynamic versus adaptive heterogeneous scheduling strategies for executing value iterationA cent a,aa core procedure in many decision-making methods, such as reinforcement learning and task planningA cent a,aon a low-power heterogeneous CPU+GPU SoC that only uses 10A cent a,aoe15 W. Our experimental results show that by using CPU+GPU heterogeneous strategies, the computation time and energy required are considerably reduced. They can be up to 54% (61%) faster and 57% (65%) more energy-efficient with respect to multicoreA cent a,aTBBA cent a,a(or GPU-onlyA cent a,aOpenCLA cent a,a) implementation. Additionally, we also explore the impact of increasing the abstraction level of the programming model to ease the programming effort. To that end, we compare the TBB+OpenCL vs. the TBB+oneAPI implementations of our heterogeneous schedulers, observing that oneAPI versions result in up to 5 Afa" less programming effort and only incur in 3A cent a,aoe8% of overhead if the scheduling strategy is selected carefully. A,A(C) 2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Decision making under uncertainty; Energy reduction; Low-power heterogeneous computing; Markov decision processes; oneAPI; Value iteration
